---
layout: post
title:  "Ahoy!"
date: 2022-05-01 01:07:00 +0530
tags: blog fediverse ramblings log
blurb: Why this blog and why now?
modified: 2022-05-02 15:02:02 +0530
---

## First post 

After much dithering, I have found the time to document my use of new tools, the ascent into the Fediverse and a technical log of this journey. 

This site has been crafted to ensure that pages are not unnecessarily clunky, hard to make, and incredibly complex with multiple scripts for each task. I have followed simple principles that allow text sites to load and render quickly, maintain consistency across different browsers and devices with ease. Some of the wonderful folk who have follow these ideas range from [1mb.club](https://1mb.club/) to [10kbclub.com](https://10kbclub.com). 

This website has been setup using the idea of a [single page template](https://john-doe.neocities.org/) as I do not foresee a large site at this point. The site is currently versioned on GitHub and then deployed through Netlify. In case the site reaches a target of **100 posts**, it may then merit a domain name and a move to a better templating system. It will continue to follow the ideas of a simpler, lighter, and better web. 

### Why is it anonymous?
My introduction to the internet was through Telnet, IRC, Listserv and BBS. I made a bunch of friends that who knew each other by their respective handles or aliases. I do not really recall being bullied or harassed myself or witnessing this happen to anyone else on these rooms and servers regularly. Yes, occasional incidents did occur, what was interesting was the way such problems were handled, and the community continued to function after it. This is an experiment to see if it is possible to continue to have a friendly and inclusive community that can exist while being anonymous (and therefore respecting the need for privacy). 

### Social web
My meandering path back into the world of technology has also meant I have now discovered federated social networks and a semblance of control/power for the users. While the idea of the power to host, moderate and curate all our interactions on our own is seductive, the cost to do so, in terms of time, effort and skills required seems to be high. This is an attempt to test these new protocols and methods of remaining connected with each other. 

*More to follow*

While I have only created this blog today, this has been in the works for a while now. I will try and put together a bunch of material that has led me to finally set this up, 

1. Why do we need a simpler, quicker web?
	1. Lesser frameworks and scripts
	2. The need for a connected web
2. Need for decentralised social media
3. Eco-friendly and inclusive communities (as there are exhaustive resources available for privacy-first, cross-platform and open-source, I shall not be attempting to document it here.)
